.na
.nh
.TH extractpieces 1 4.6.34 IMOD
.SH NAME
extractpieces - Extract piece coordinates from header of image file
.SH SYNOPSIS
extractpieces  [options]  input_image_file  output_piece_list_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
EXTRACTPIECES will extract piece coordinates from the header of
an image file, if they are present, and produce a file with those
coordinates (a piece list file).  In addition, it can extract coordinates
from an image metadata file produced by SerialEM.  The metadata file
must have the same number of sections as the Z size of the image
file.  It can also extract coordinates stored as attributes in an HDF
file.
.SH OPTIONS
Extractpieces uses the PIP package for input (see the manual page for
pip(1)). Thus, the following options can be specified either as command line
arguments (with the -) or one per line in a command file (without the -):
.TP
.B -input \fROR\fP -InputFile 	 \fIFile name\fR
Image file with header information to extract.  If this option is not
entered, the first non-option argument will be taken as the input file.
An image file name is required unless the \fB-other\fR option is entered.
.TP
.B -output \fROR\fP -OutputFile 	 \fIFile name\fR
Output file for header values.  If this option is not entered, the second
non-option argument will be taken as the output file.
.TP
.B -mdoc \fROR\fP -MdocMetadataFile
Obtain values from a metadata file named with the name of the input file
plus '.mdoc', instead of from the extended header of the image file.  A
file with this name is generated by SerialEM when an option is selected to
save extra information in a metadata file, or when the coordinates are too
large to fit in the extended header.  You do not supply the name
of the .mdoc file when you use this option.  As of IMOD 4.8.7, the program
will look for such a file automatically if the requested values are not
present in the image file header.  Thus, this option is no longer necessary
except for forcing the program to ignore values in the header and access the
'.mdoc' file first.
.TP
.B -other \fROR\fP -OtherMetadataFile 	 \fIFile name\fR
Obtain values from the metadata file with the given name, instead of from
the extended header of the image file.  With this option, no input image
file needs to be supplied; but if you do omit the input file, you must
specify the output file with \fB-output\fR instead of as a non-option
argument.
.TP
.B -help \fROR\fP -usage
Print help output
.TP
.B -StandardInput
Read parameter entries from standard input.
.P
If the program is started with no command line arguments, it reverts to
interactive input with the following entries:
.P
  Image file with piece list information in header
  Output file for piece coordinates
.P
.SH HISTORY
.nf
  Written by David Mastronarde, October 1999
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
