.na
.nh
.TH imod2patch 1 2.42 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
imod2patch \- converts a model to a patch displacement file
.SH SYNOPSIS
imod2patch  [-v column] IMOD_model_file  output_patch_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Imod2patch converts an IMOD model originally produced by Patch2imod(1)
back into a list of patch positions and displacements.  Specifically,
for every contour in the model consisting of at least two points, it outputs
a line listing
a 3-D position and a displacement.  The
position is that of the first point.  The displacement is the 
vector from the first to the second point, divided by the scaling factor
that was stored as the pixel size in the model header.  The resulting file
can then be analyzed by Findwarp(1) or Refinematch(1).
.P
If the original patch file contained extra value columns, such as
correlation coefficients (from
Corrsearch3d(1)) or residual values (from Refinematch(1) or Findwarp(1)),
and these were stored as values in the model file by Patch2imod(1), then
Imod2patch will add these values to each line, or a 0 if there is no value
for a particular point.  Multiple columns of data will be restored and
their ID numbers, if present on the first line in the original patch
file, will be output to the first line of the new file.  If
a particular column was made primary with the \fB-v\fR option to
Patch2imod(1), then it can be moved back to its original position with
the \fB-v\fR option here.  For example, the second column can be made
the first general value by entering "-v -2" to Patch2imod(1), and
restored to this position by entering "-v 2" to this program.
.SH FILES
If the output file already exists, it becomes a backup file with ~ added to its
name.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde
.SH SEE ALSO
patch2imod(1), corrsearch3d(1), findwarp(1), refinematch(1)
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
